**THEORY:**

**Solid**

A solid is a 3-D object having length, breadth, and thickness and
bounded by surfaces that may be either plane or curved, or a combination
of the two.  
Solids are classified under two main headings

- Polyhedron

- Solids of revolution

A regular polyhedron is solidly bounded only by plane surfaces (faces).
Its faces are formed by regular polygons of the same size and all
dihedral angles are equal.  when faces of a polyhedron are not formed by
equal identical faces, they may be classified into prisms and pyramids.

Tetrahedron: 4 equal equilateral triangular faces.

Cube(Hexahedron): 6 equal square faces.

Octahedron: 8 equal equilateral triangular faces.

Dodecahedron: 12 equal regular pentagon faces

Icosahedron: 20 equal triangular faces.

**Prism**

Prisms are polyhedrons formed by two equal parallel regular polygons,
end faces connected by side faces which are either rectangles or
parallelograms.

**Some definitions regarding prisms**

**<span class="underline">Base and lateral faces</span>**.  When the
prism is placed vertically on one of its end faces, the end face on
which the prism rests is called the base.

**<span class="underline">Base edge/Shorter edge:</span>** These are
the sides of the end faces

**<span class="underline">Axis</span>** – it is the imaginary line
connecting the end faces is called the axis

**<span class="underline">Longer edge/lateral edges:</span>** These are
the edges connecting the respective corners of the two end faces.

**<span class="underline">Right Prism</span>:** A prism whose axis is
perpendicular to its end face is called a right prism. Prisms are named
according to the shape of their end faces, i.e, if end faces are
triangular, the prism is called a triangular prism.

**<span class="underline">Oblique prism</span>:** It is the prism in
which the axis is inclined to its base.

**Pyramids**  
The pyramid is a polyhedron formed by a plane surface as its base and
several triangles as its side face, all meeting at a point, called
vertex or apex.

**<span class="underline">Axis</span>**: The imaginary line connecting
the apex and the center of the base.

**<span class="underline">Inclined/slant faces</span>**: Inclined
triangular side faces.

**<span class="underline">Inclined/slant/longer edges</span>**: The
edges which connect the apex and the base corners.

**<span class="underline">Right pyramid</span>:** When the axis of the
pyramid is perpendicular to its base.

**<span class="underline">Oblique pyramid</span>:** When the axis of the
pyramid is inclined to its base.

**Solids of revolution**

when some of the plane figures are revolved about one of their sides –
solids of revolution is generated some of the solids of revolution are:

1.  Cylinder:  when a rectangle is revolved about one of its sides, the
    other parallel side generates a cylinder.

2.  Cone: when a right triangle is revolved about one of its sides, the
    hypotenuse of the right triangle generates a cone.

3.  Oblique cylinder: when a parallelogram is revolved about one of its
    sides, the other parallel side generates a cylinder.

4.  Sphere:  when a semi-circle is revolved about one of its diameters,
    a sphere is generated.

5.  Truncated and frustums of solids – when prisms, pyramids, cylinders
    are cut by cutting planes, the lower portion of the solids (without
    their top portions) are called, either truncated or frustum of these
    solids.
